# Confidential Computing Consortium TAC meeting

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

## Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, March 10, 2022

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom.us/j/184384055](https://zoom.us/j/184384055) (pw: 43690)
* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io) ([ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics), [Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com))
* **Recording**: [YouTube TAC meetings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* **Accenture** - Giuseppe Giordano
* **Ant Group** - Zongmin Gu / Tate, Hongliang Tian
* **Arm** - Thomas Fossati / Michael Lu
* **Google** - Iulia Ion
* **Huawei** - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang
* **Intel** - Dan Middleton / Simon Johnson
* **Meta** - Eric Northup / Shankaran Gnanashanmugam
* **Microsoft** - Dave Thaler (TAC chair)
* **Red Hat** - Lily Sturmann / Dimitrios Pendarakis

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

Rep. Thaler opened the call at 7:05a PT. He welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation.

### Roll Call / Attendance

#### Voting members

* Dan Middleton (Intel)
* Dave Thaler (Microsoft)
* Eric Northup (Meta)
* Lily Sturman (Red Hat)
* Zhipeng (Howard) Huang (Huawei)
* Thomas Fossati (Arm)

#### Other attendees

* Ben Fischer (Red Hat)
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Eric Voit (Cisco)
* Helen Lau (Linux Foundation)
* Henk Birkholz ()
* Kurt Taylor (Linux Foundation)
* Naveen Cherukuri (Nvidia)
* Mike Bursell (Profian)
* Nick Vidal (Profian)
* Penglin Yang (China Mobile)
* Sneha Damle (R3)
* Simon Johnson (Intel)
* Steve Van Lare (Anjuna)
* Xinxin Fan (IoTeX)

### Meeting minute approvals

#### Approved by voting members

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [February 10, 2022](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/93/files) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the * [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

#### Pending approval

* None

### Open Action Items

1. **[Stephen, Zongmin]** Recommend diversity and inclusion training to their projects and report back to the TAC on whether the maintainers or the contributors will be taking it and when the expected completion date is.
    * Gramine reports they have taken it.
    * Enarx reports they have taken it.

1. **[Stephen Walli, Dan Middleton, Aeva Black]** Develop a CoC escalation process, to be presented to TAC and governing board.
    * Dan Middleton has [opened a PR for review](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/92)

1. **[Mike, Eric V, Stephen, Zongmin]** Recommend diversity and inclusion training to their projects and report back to the TAC on whether the maintainers or the contributors will be taking it and when the expected completion date is.
    * Open Enclave maintainers are close to 100% trained (Dave Thaler)
    * Veracruz lead has taken the course (Thomas Fossati).
    * Please report back that project maintainers have been made aware of the training, and have been asked to take it.

1. **[Stephen Walli, Dan Middleton, Aeva Black]** Develop a CoC escalation process, to be presented to TAC and governing board.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Investigate prior efforts to finalize Graduated lifecycle language, and if needed file an issue to finalize Graduated lifecycle language.

1. **[Dave Thaler]** Open an issue requesting someone sync project benefits slides to the repo.

### Completed Action Items

1. **[Brian Warner]** Update the Google Sheet containing the [list of CCC dependencies](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0) with the changed dependencies noted in the project review document.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Add Enarx annual review to the agenda for March 10th TAC meeting.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Add slide to this deck reminding the TAC to review PRs and issues, time permitting.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Schedule a deep-dive into LFX code scanning for April 19, 2022.
    * Confirmed, Shubhra Kar and David Deal from LF to present.

1. **[Dan Middleton]** Work with CCC Attestation to schedule annual review, tentatively for March 24, 2022.
    * Date needs to be changed, as it clashes with IETF.
    * Will also impact TAC meeting attendance.
        * TAC meeting on March 24, 2022 will be cancelled.
    * Moved to April 5, 2022.

### Project overviews

* Veraison
    * Dave Thaler (DT) noted that Veraison was approved by the TAC, and is ready for next steps (technical charter, IP transfer, board approval).

### TAC Tech Talk - Overview of TCG Confidential Computing

Henk Birkholtz (HB) introduced himself and the topic of Transparent Confidentiality, and provided a discussion on TCG. Discussion ensued over the definition of confidential computing and the role of a hardware-based TEE.

### Enarx - annual project review 

Nick Vidal (NV) and Mike Bursell (MB) provided an overview of Enarx and how it has evolved. NV noted that Enarx is a deployment framework for applications in TEEs. He noted that it provides a WASM runtime, and is designed to work across architectures transparently. It supports Intel's SGX and AMD's SEV. Currently Enarx is a Sandbox project.

NV noted there were changes to the project's communication channels. He noted that [https://blog.enarx.dev](https://blog.enarx.dev) is now an official channel, and that the project recently rebuilt [enarx.dev](https://enarx.dev).

NV noted some changes to third-party dependencies.

**Action:** BW to verify that third-party dependencies appear in the [CCC dependencies spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0).

MB noted that the Rust implementation of OpenSSL has been challenging for the project, and reviewed alternate implementations. He invited others to participate in the development process. DM noted he's aware of some other alternatives. MB reviewed the status of Rust-native implementations.

NV noted Enarx has begun to make formal releases and reviewed the release process. NV next reviewed the project's progression status. He reviewed the history of the project, and noted that there is continued collaboration with Red Hat. He noted that the project is working towards the requirements to diversify maintainers.

NV noted that the [project is using LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/ccc%2Fccc-enarx/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y) to measure progress and growth within the community. He reviewed community growth in the core team and outside contributors.

He noted that Enarx is not ready to request a move to Incubation stage, but that the project is showing a lot of continued growth. He noted the project does not yet feel it has met the requirements to have widespread adoption in at least two end-users.

NV reviewed the budget, noting that the project had requested a server from CCC. He noted that work is ongoing to stabilize infrastructure. MB discussed the use of the servers. NV noted that many community members have been granted access.

NV reviewed the project's participation in the Outreachy mentorship program. He noted it has had a major impact on the project. MB noted that the interns were very impressive. They began with high-level contributions and are now making low-level contributions. NV noted that the interns had presented at OC3, and demoed machine learning, zero-proof knowledge, and networking. He noted that this was an excellent way to present progress in the projects. One of the interns will present at Open Source Africa. MB noted that there have been massive benefits to the project from using Outreachy. He noted that it's helped the project, the community, and the individuals who are participating.

DT noted that the one request from the Governing Board to the TAC for 2022 is "spend more money." He noted that projects should think about ways to spend money for maximum impact for projects and the communities. He suggested CI/CD runners as an example. Discussion ensued.

Finally, NV reviewed the project's license scans. He noted no license issues. He reviewed some questions about the LFX Security scans. He also noted that the project is attempting to follow the best practices for security.

DM noted that there are many things a project should do for security, and noted that he's happy to see Enarx attempting to do this work. He asked for clarification on the Enarx workload premise. Is the idea that any bytecode should run, or that you're building bytecode directly for Enarx?

MB noted that the ideal situation is that applications are built as WASM executables. He noted there is also a debug path using a kvm-hosted version of the Enarx TEE. Discussion ensued over the ideal time to adapt code to use Enarx. Discussion ensued over WASI.

### Common terminology

DT requested that Eric Voit (EV) and Steve Van Lare (SVL) provide an update. SVL noted that Anjuna plans to increase engagement in the discussion. EV noted there have been some new comments on the text.

He noted the first question was whether "Isolation" is an appropriate name. SVL noted that this is a good term because it is related to code packaging. Discussion ensued over "Memory Isolation" or "Memory Protection". Simon Johnson provided input on revised terms to reflect the way that SGX works. Discussion ensued.

The second question was about representation of VMs vs. containers. Discussion ensued.

### Outreach update

BW reviewed recent topics handled by the Outreach committee. He noted that a webinar will be held on March 15 at 8a called [The Hard Facts About Confidential Computing: Understanding Hardware’s Role in Delivering a New Level of Data Security](https://confidentialcomputing.io/webinar-the-hard-facts-about-confidential-computing/). He requested that TAC members amplify the social media posts and invite their colleagues.

BW next noted discussions on mentorship led by NV. He also noted a discussion on event prioritization, and preparations to re-engage with analysts. Finally, he noted the website planning sub-team plans to begin meeting starting next week.

### Future topics

DT noted that the March 24th meeting will be skipped. He noted that CCC-Attestation will be providing a review on April 5, and a tech talk on confidential computing from the perspective of the network. 

#### Pull request review

* [PR #87](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/issues/87): BW to merge `main` into `master`, delete `main`, and rename `master`.
* [PR #90](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/90): All to re-review, BW pushed significant changes.
* [PR #92](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/92): All to review

### Updating documentation

DT closed the call at 9:00a PT.
